So click on pure React here and we're
just gonna start by writing just React.
There's gonna be no bill tool between us,
it's just going to be script tags and
HTML, that's really all
we're gonna do up front.
So I'm just gonna create
this on my desktop.
I'm gonna create a new folder,
I'm gonna call it Adopt Me which
is the name of the project.
We're gonna be writing a pet adoption app,
it's adorable.
Drag down the VS code and you can see
here I just have my Adopt Me folder here.
And then I'm gonna create a file and
set that called source which is where
our SRC which is where I'm gonna put
all of my HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Create a file inside of the source
directory call that index.HTML.
And then inside of the index.HTML
we're going to put some basic HTML.
So in VS code here we can
use a thing called Emmet,
this is available in Sublime and
TextMate and as well.
But if you put HTML5 and then you hit tab
you'll get this bare bones set of HTML.
You can get rid of this I
equals edge equivalents cuz
that doesn't really do anything anymore.
And then instead of calling this
document I'm gonna call it Adopt Me and
this is version eight of the course, okay?
Here in the body we're gonna put
a div with the ID equal to root and
I'm gonna put something in
here like not rendered.
Because if we see this not rendered
we know that our React App for
whatever reason didn't render, right?
And we'll replace this text here, okay?
And then here we're gonna put two script
tags, I'm just gonna copy this from my
notes here because it's long enough
that I always get the URLs wrong.
So I'm gonna copy paste this to that.
So reactd18.2und, the universal module so
this is gonna make react universally
available, as a global variable.
This is not how we're gonna
finish your app, this is just so
we can get started, right?
We're gonna grab React and React DOM.
React is the API part of the library and
React DOM is the actual what's
going to render it to the DOM.
The reason why they split this out
is because there's React Native,
there's React 360.
There's a bunch of different renderers for
React and
React is like the developer
surface area and
then React DOM is what's actually doing
the part that talks to the DOM, right?
So the React DOM is actually
the much larger part of the library.
React itself is much smaller and
this is shared amongst React Native and
all these other ones, okay?
And then after these two script tags
I want you to put a script tag here.
And we are gonna write
JavaScript directly here.
Okay, so I want you to come
back over to your browser.
We're just gonna Command+O or
Ctrl+O or file open, right?
Open file and I put this on my desktop.
Adopt Me, source, index, and HTML.
And so you gonna see here.
All right, I did this and
I didn't save that.
Okay, now, save it, refresh it.
You can see here it says not rendered.
You can look here in my network tab and
I have, let see if I can make that
a little bit bigger, index and
then you can see react.development and
react.DOM development
are both coming in just fine.
And then here in my console you can
see that I have React available and
I have ReactDOM available right there.
This is always my favorite
thing right here.
Secret internals do not use or
you will be fired.
It's been there for years now.
And obviously react was
written by Facebook, right?
And so they put some internal things in
there so they can track certain things or
test different things.
And there's always a big temptation
to mess around with the internals and
apparently they're just very, very
upfront to the other Facebook employees,
don't mess with this or
it's gonna break soon, right?
I've been told it's a joke, you won't
be fired but your stuff will break.
And then you can see our
beautiful not rendered there.
So pretty standard HTML5 document, writing
a root div, we have two script tags and
the last script tag is where
we're gonna put our code.
We're gonna put a little bit of code in
there and then eventually we're just gonna
move it into another file and
let's go grab our styles really quick.
So not a CSS course,
there's lots of great CSS resources
on Frontend Masters, this ain't it.
So I want you to just go click,
I have a link here in this blue box where
it says click here, click that and
as command A, command C, copy and
paste everything in this file into
another file in here called style.CSS.
Paste, save,
I do not assert that this is good CSS or
that anything you should copy or even
look at, please just close the file and
pretend that it's not
there anymore [LAUGH].
Now, I mean it's fine.
But yeah, it's not a CSS course.
If you follow all of my class names and
stuff like that you will get
all of your style for free.
Again, we don't wanna write CSS
in the course of this class.
So up here in your head please
put a link to ./style.CSS.
And this I meant to put
inside the source directory.
Yeah, there you go.
So index, HTML, and style CSS are both
inside of the source directory.
So now if we refresh the page you can see
we have our beautiful little background.
Yeah, there is some custom art for
this website done by Alice Barton.
It's great including our
nice little background.
Yeah, and
if you really feel like it I think
there's several available styles here.
So you have wallpaper B here.
I think if you switch just to wallpaper A,
you can see it's a nice more muted tone or
wallpaper C I think is black and white.
Yeah, so whatever one you feel like.
I might stick with C.
No, let's do B because that's actually
the one that's defaulting in there but
you can change it to whatever you want.
So in your script tag let us go write,
what is this like?
Ten lines of code and
we'll have rendered our first React App.
So first thing we're gonna make,
we're gonna make a variable called App.
It's important that it's capitalized,
capital A.
You're always going to
capitalize your components.
I'm gonna make a function here.
And we're going to return
React.createElement.
It's gonna be a div and
then inside of that,
here you can either put no or
you can put empty objects
that's kind of up to you.
I'm gonna put empty object and
then we're gonna do React.createElement.
Again, so the same calls that we did
up here but we're gonna put an h1.
Again, another empty object and then I'm
gonna put some text here of Adopt Me or
something like that.
Okay, so
now we have this function that returns
the results of whatever
React.createElements does.
So first couple things here.
The first thing that we're putting here
is what kind of elements we're putting in
here, right?
So this is going to be a div.
As you might imagine if I put a p here,
it's gonna be a p element,
if I put a X-custom element, right?
If we're doing web components,
it's going to put literally
whatever you put here, right?
I can put something not real and
it's gonna try and do that, right?
In theory I guess you could do this
render XML if you really want it to,
please don't.
But in theory it would work, right?
So we're gonna have a div.
And as you can see here we're
doing an h1 down there, right?
So that's this.
The null or the empty object here this
is going to be whatever attributes
that you're handing down to this.
So if I wanted to have an ID here of
my ID or something like that, right?
This is gonna be whatever
you put on the HTML element.
So you could have a style tag,
you could have a class name, right?
All those things are valid here.
We're not putting anything so you have
to give it something there, right?
We're giving an empty object but
that could have been no,
both of those essentially
mean the same thing to react.
And then the third thing that you
give it here is the children, right?
So whatever it's going to go inside,
HTML is nested, right?
You have a head tag and
inside of that there's a title tag, right?
So whatever you put in here is going to
be whatever goes inside of that issue.
So we're gonna have a div
inside of that div is an h1 and
inside of that h1 is
just raw text Adopt Me.
So that's all createElement does, it's
just printing brand new HTML tags for you.
I mentioned ligatures
earlier in the course.
Some of you might be looking at like,
that's not real.
There's no such thing as
an arrow tag like that, right?
It really is just an equals and
an angle bracket put together and
then my font combines them
into a fat looking arrow.
That is what a ligature does.
There's a bunch of them in here if you
have any questions about what they are be
sure to let me know.
There's double equals,
triple equals, less than or
equal to, greater than or
equal to, things like that.
Though the most part it just helps
you have less cognitive noise.
I think that's the theory in
reality to me it's the same, right?
I just think it's pretty which I like
pretty things so I keep doing it.
Okay, so app is always capitalized.
You always capitalize your components
that's actually not just a good idea it's
actually required.
We'll get into that while we get into
JSX but for now just believe me,
you do need to capitalize app here.
Okay, so now I have a function but
I'm not using it yet.
It's not doing anything, right?
Basically I've created this rubber stamp,
right?
And I have this lovely rubber stamp
that's ready to stamp things but
I haven't actually stamped it yet.
All I've done is I've given
you the rubber stamp.
It's like, I have a rubber stamp and
you're like,
what do I do with a rubber stamp?
I need to go use it, right?
I've created a new type of class if you're
familiar with Java or even classes or
things like that but I haven't
actually instantiated it anywhere.
So let's go stamp something, right?
Let's go make something, okay?
So I'm gonna have const container
equals document.getElementbyId and
we're gonna go grab root up here, right?
This one up here.
Doesn't have to be called root,
you can call it whatever you want.
I think there's just kind of most
people tend to call it root.
Const root equals
ReactDOM.createroot.
And then we're going to
give it the container.
Yes, you can directly put this in
here as well that's totally fine.
It's nice to keep a handle
on container and on root but
that's really up to you
how you choose to do that.
And then we're gonna say
root.render(React.createElement) app.
All right, so just to make sure that I'm
not saving to you now we should go over it
and what do we expect to see?
We expect to see a div and inside of that
div we're gonna expect to see an h1 and
instead of h1 it would say adopt me but
I think it actually replaces with
an image cuz of the CSS, it does.
But if you inspect the image here
you can see it actually is an h1 and
I just mess with the background
image here which I have as Adopt Me.
Let's talk about createElement.
Notice that we use createElement
again here but we're not giving it
a string like we did here or here but
we're actually giving it a component.
This is kind of like the trick of react.
If you give it text, it's just going to
render that directly as the tag name.
Again, if I did not a div and
I refresh here and I inspect here,
you can see it actually outputs here,
not a div.
So whatever you put in that text there
it's just gonna like, all right,
that's the kind of tag you
wanted I'm just gonna do it.
It doesn't ask you any questions there.
But if you give it a component like this,
like a function that creates more
elements, it'll actually go and
render that out, right?
So we're kind of getting at what
the magic of react is, right?
I create components that
are made up of other components,
that are made up of other components, that
are made up of other components, right?
So it's just these, you get these reusable
rubber stamps that then stamp other rubber
stamps which sounds awesome.
Now that I think about it
I have a startup idea.
I'm just kidding, that sounds like a dumb
idea but that's the idea here is we now
have these really cool, useful,
reusable components, right?
You can make a really fancy input and then
you can make a fancy form that is made
up of fancy inputs and then you can have a
page that's made up of fancy forms, right?
You can see that it's just expands bigger
and bigger and you get these better bigger
macro components that are made
up of micro components, right?
That's the idea.
You might wonder like, what happened
to the other two things here?
Well, these other two things are optional.
The attributes and the children.
This has no children, it has no attributes
so I don't have to put anything but
you absolutely can give
it an empty object.
And I don't know, null here or
something like that.
You can it just you don't need to, right?
So if I refresh this,
has no attributes being passed into it and
it has no children.
You don't really need to know most of
this stuff is like the arity of how this
createElement function works.
I'm gonna venture to say that most
react developers do not know that
React.createElement is
a thing that exists.
You actually are probably never going
to call it again directly as if 10
minutes in the future because I'm
gonna show you how to work with JSX,
JSK calls to react.createElement for you.
But I just wanted to show you
how all this stuff works.
There's nothing mystical
about what's going on here.
I'm gonna show you JSX, it's gonna do
this for you but this is all it's doing.
All JSX does is it gets translated
into JavaScript that looks like this.
So why do I show you this?
If you're never gonna do it
again why do I show you this?
One, I wanna show you that
it's not a black box,
it's actually very simple
of what it's doing for you.
And two, whenever you're looking at
your stack traces and you see a bunch of
createElement calls, I want you to know
what happened and why it's there, okay?
It's one of those things like, if you
know what your tools are doing for you,
you embrace the complexity.
So you're gonna start using JSX like,
this is so much easier but
you know why it's there.
You know what it's doing for you.
It's not intimidating.